Hello everyone
In this video let us learn how to implement the
bottom up approach of nth fibonacci problem.
So we have two functions here.
The main function and the user defined function
Fibonacci
So in main function, first declare the integer variable n.
And now read the number from user to variable n.
Suppose the number read from user is 4 and it
is stored in variable n.
And now we have the base case fibonacci(0)
equal to zero and fibonacci(1) equal to one
So check if n is less than or equal to one
if so, print that number itself.
else we have to call fibonacci(n)
Here 4 is not less than or equal to 1
So if part will fail and go to else case
and call Fibonacci(4)
So control reaches this function and here n is equal
to four. So create an integer array Fib of size N+1
and integer variable i.
Now set Fib(0) =0 and Fib(1) =1
Now we know that Fib(N)=Fib(N-1) + Fib(N-2)
for every N greater than or equal to 2
so we can use a for loop from i=2
to i lesser than or equal to N
increment i in each iteration
So in the first iteration  i is equal to two
So Fib[2] will be computed and it will be
equal to Fib(2-1) + Fib(2-2)
That is Fib(1)+Fib(0)  which
is equal to 1+0 equal to 1.
So Fib[2] is computed.
Now we have the values of Fib[0],Fib[1] and Fib[2]
Now in the second iteration i will be equal to 3
So Fib(3)=Fib(3-1) + Fib(3-2) that is
Fib(2)+Fib(1) that is
1+1 which is equal to two.
So Fib[3] is also computed now.
Now in the third iterations i will be equal to four
so Fib(4) = Fib(4-1) + Fib(4-2)
That is Fib(3) + Fib(2) which
is equal to 2+1 that will be equal to 3
So Fib[4] is also computed
Now i will be equal to five in the next
iteration and here condition i lesser than or equal to N
will fail.
So return fib[N] that is fib[4]
to the main function and it will be printed here
That is Fib[4]=3 will be printed
on this screen and finally the programme returns zero.
So that is how nth fibonacci problem can be implemented
using bottom up approach.